there are numerous barbs on lateral kernels. The crease is wide, particularly at the awn end. The kernel has a hump on
the back, particularly on plump kernels. Lateral kernels are moderately twisted. Winter Tennessee is less susceptible to
the major diseases than Atlas. At the time of evaluation it was resistant to scald and susceptible to BYD. It was evaluated
as Entry 10 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from 1980-1981 for late fall planting in the Central Valley and
the south-central coastal regions of California.

WOCUS 71
Wocus 71 is a six-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by the University of California AES in 1972. It is a
composite of 500 head rows selected from Wocus on the basis of improved straw quality (height and strength), earlier
maturity, and increased kernel size. Wocus, which originated from the cross Coast/Lion//Winter Club made at Logan,
Utah in 1949, was released by the Oregon Agricultural Experiment Station in 1958. Wocus 71 has stiffer straw, is 3 to 5
inches shorter, and 4 to 6 days earlier in maturity than Wocus. The spike is dense and medium long, with awns (semi-
smooth) about three times as long as the spike. The rachis is tough with good shatter resistance. Kernels are large, with
short rachilla hairs and white aleurone. It is adapted to fertile irrigated areas of the Tulelake Basin, intermountain valleys
of northern California and Klamath, Jackson and Josephine counties of Oregon. It was evaluated as Entry 184 in the UC
Regional Cereal Testing program from 1980-1984 for spring planting in the intermountain region of northern California.
Crop Science 19:409 (1979)
XENA
Xena is a two-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by Western Plant Breeders in 1999. It was selected from the
cross Stark/Baronesse. Its experimental designation was WPB BZ 594-19. It has medium maturity (3-5 days later than
Steptoe), medium plant height (2-3 inches taller than Baronesse), and fair straw strength. The stem has waxy coating, a
closed collar and the neck is straight. The leaves are slightly waxy in appearance and there is no anthocyanin in the leaf
sheath or stem. However, there is anthocyanin in the veins of the lemma. The head is semi-erect (not dense), strap
shaped, slightly waxy and semi nodding at maturity. The glume length is more than 1/2 the length of the lemma and the
glume is covered with short hairs. The glume awns are equal to the length of the glumes and the surface is rough. The
lemma is awned, and the awns are rough. Both lemma teeth and lemma hairs are absent, and the rachilla hair is long. The
seed is mid long, wrinkled, and has a white (or colorless) aleurone. The lateral florets are extremely reduced in size. At
the time of evaluation it was moderately resistant to scald and BYD, moderately susceptible to net blotch and stripe rust,
and susceptible to leaf rust, stem rust, and powdery mildew. It was evaluated as Entry 1008 in the UC Regional Cereal
Testing program from 1998-2009 for spring planting in the intermountain region of northern California.

 37
