loose smut, covered smut and BYD. It was evaluated as Entry 691 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from
1984-1985 for spring planting in the intermountain region of northern California. Crop Science 24:1210 (1984)

HEAVYWEIGHT
Heavyweight is a two-rowed spring feed barley. It was developed by Greenway Seeds, Idaho. Its experimental
designation was PB 29. It is medium maturing and has mid-tall plant height and good straw strength. It was evaluated as
Entry 693 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from 1984-1985 for spring planting in the intermountain region of
northern California.

HECTOR
Hector is a two-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by Agriculture Canada at Lethbridge, Alberta, in 1973. It was
selected from the cross Betzes/Palliser. It is medium maturing and has mid-tall plant height and poor straw strength.
Hector has a rough awn, yellow aleurone, and a horseshoe depression tending to crease. It has a mid-sized to small
kernel and the rachilla is mid-to-long with long hairs. It has been recommended as a dryland feed barley. It was
evaluated as Entry 629 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from 1982-1984 for spring planting in the
intermountain region of northern California.

HOCKETT
Hockett is a two-rowed spring malting barley. It was developed by the Montana AES and released in 2008. It was
derived from the cross ND7293/Bearpaw. It is adapted for dryland production, and when compared to Harrington,
Hockett has a higher yield and better malt quality under dryland conditions. It averages 37 inches in plant height and has
poor straw strength (susceptible to lodging). It is susceptible to stripe rust. It was evaluated as Entry 1197 in the UC
Regional Cereal Testing program in 2006 and 2011 for spring planting in the intermountain region of northern
California.

HORSFORD
Horsford is a six-rowed spring hooded forage barley. It includes a number of similar barleys of separate origins, the first
of these produced in Vermont in 1879. It was selected from a cross of Nepal with one of the common six-rowed bearded
barleys of the Eastern states. It is the first known hybrid barley produced in the United States. It was grown extensively
in Washington at the turn of the century (1900’s). It is medium-late maturing, tall and susceptible to lodging. The basal
rachis internode is straight or sometimes curved. The rachis is tough with short-haired edges. The spike is lax, short to
mid-long, parallel, slightly waxy, erect to inclined. The lemma is hooded and hoods are elevated without an appendage
on the middle lobe or with a very short one. The glume awn is equal in length to the glume and is rough. Glumes are
one-half to two-thirds the length of the lemma and are covered with short hairs. The rachilla is short haired. Kernels are
blue, mid-long to long, and hulls are slightly wrinkled to wrinkled. Horsford is best adapted to dryland and irrigated
areas in the Pacific Northwest and northern Great Plains. It was evaluated as Entry 1224 in the UC Regional Cereal
Testing program in 2007 as a forage barley for spring planting in the intermountain region of northern California.

IDAGOLD
Idagold is a two-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by Coors Brewing Company in 1993. It is very late maturing
and is short with stiff-straw. It has high test weight and good feed quality (digestibility). At the time of evaluation it was
moderately resistant to BYD and moderately susceptible to stripe rust. It was evaluated as Entry 1007 in the UC
Regional Cereal Testing program from 1998-2000 for spring planting in the intermountain region of northern California.

IDAGOLD 2
Idagold 2 is a two-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by Coors Brewing Company in 2001. Its experimental
designation was C32. It is medium-late maturing (earlier maturing than Idagold) and is short with stiff-straw (height is
comparable to Idagold and its straw strength is as good as Idagold). It has better test weight than Idagold. It was
evaluated as Entry 1074 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program in 2001 and in 2009 for spring planting in the
intermountain region of northern California.

JERSEY
Jersey is a two-rowed spring feed barley. It was developed by Western Plant Breeders and Cebeco Seeds. It was selected
from the cross Apex/Alexis. Its experimental designation was Cebeco 9538. It is late maturing and has mid-tall plant
height and fair straw strength. At the time of evaluation it was resistant to stripe rust and BYD. It was evaluated as Entry

 21
