AC METCALFE
AC Metcalfe is a two-rowed spring malting barley. It was released by Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada in 1997. It was
selected from the cross AC Oxbow/Manley. Its experimental designations were TR 232 and WM8612-1. It is widely
adapted to western Canada and has excellent malting and brewing quality, particularly malt extract. It is tall (averages
about 40 inches in plant height) with fair straw strength and is medium late maturing (about one day later than
Harrington). At the time of release it was resistant to stripe rust, stem rust, loose smut, moderately resistant to the
surface-borne smuts and the spot-form of net blotch (and had adult plant resistance to some net-form pathotypes), and
susceptible to scald, leaf rust, speckled leaf blotch, common root rot, and BYD. It was evaluated as Entry 1217 in the UC
Regional Cereal Testing program from 2007-present for spring planting in the intermountain region of northern
California.

BARONESSE
Baronesse is a two-rowed spring feed barley. It was developed in Germany and first marketed in the United States by
Western Plant Breeders in 1991. It was selected from the cross ([(Mentor x Minerva) x mutant of Vada] x [(Carlsberg x
Union) x (Opavsky x Salle) x Ricardo]) x (Oriol x 6153 P40). It is mid-late season in maturity (similar to Klages and 3-5
days later than Steptoe). It is medium height (2 inches shorter than Steptoe) and has moderately stiff straw. When
lodging is minimal, it has higher yield potential than other 2-rowed barleys and most 6-rowed barleys. Awns are rough.
Glumes are covered with long hairs. Hulls are adhering and wrinkled. Aleurone is colorless. Rachilla hairs are long.
Veins are well defined. There are no barbs on lateral veins. The crease is narrow in the lower half and flared toward the
beard end. The kernel is plump and broad in relation to length. At the time of evaluation Baronesse was moderately
resistant to BYD, moderately susceptible to scald and net blotch, and susceptible to stripe rust, leaf rust, and powdery
mildew. It was evaluated as Entry 900 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from 1993-present for spring planting
in the intermountain region of northern California.

CDC COPELAND
CDC Copeland is a two-rowed spring malting barley. It was developed by the Crop Development Center, University of
Saskatoon and registered in Canada in 1999. It was selected from the cross WM861-5/TR118. Its experimental
designation was TR150. It is medium late maturing (3 days earlier than Manley, 1 day later than Harrington). CDC
Copeland averages 7 cm taller than Harrington and 5 cm taller than Manley, and has good resistance to lodging (much
stronger straw than Harrington, slightly stronger straw than Manley). It has higher test weight and plumper kernels than
Manley, and kernel plumpness similar to Harrington. It has much lower beta-glucan than Harrington and Manley. Heads
are dense and semi-nodding. Awns are rough with weak anthocyanin in awn tips and equal to or longer than the spike.
Glumes and awns of the median spikelet are equal to the length of the grain. The hull is adhering and the aleurone is
colorless. Rachilla hairs are long. There is no pigment in the lemma nerves. Kernels are plump, symmetrical, and broad
in relation to length. CDC Copeland has good resistance to wheat stem rust (better than Manley and Harrington), is
moderately resistant to net blotch (similar to Manley), moderately susceptible to stripe rust, and susceptible to scald,
Septoria leaf blotch (as are Manley and Harrington), and loose smut. It is more susceptible to common root rot than
Manley. It was evaluated as Entry 1297 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from 2011-present for spring
planting in the intermountain region of northern California.

CELEBRATION
Celebration is a six-rowed spring malting barley. It was developed Busch Agricultural Resources, Inc. and released in
2008. It was derived from the cross 6B94-7378/C96-2292. It is a Midwestern cultivar, well adapted for Minnesota, North
Dakota, Idaho and Montana. Celebration has medium-early maturity, medium-short height and excellent agronomic
performance and malt quality. It has a mid-lax head type, rough awns, short rachilla hairs, and colorless aleurone. It has
improved reaction to Fusarium head blight and consistently lower DON content than Legacy and Tradition. At the time
of release it was moderately resistant to Septoria and net blotch. It was evaluated as Entry 1301 in the UC Regional
Cereal Testing program from 2011-present for spring planting in the intermountain region of northern California.

COMMANDER
Commander is a six-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by World Wide Wheat. It was selected from a male-sterile
facilitated recurrent selection population (MSFRS Short Straw Population). Its experimental designation was 7128. It is a
semi-dwarf with stiff straw (fair lodging resistance) and medium late season maturity. At the time of evaluation it was
moderately susceptible to BYD and susceptible to scald, net blotch, stripe rust, leaf rust, and powdery mildew. It was
evaluated as Entry 1085 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from 2002-2005 and in 2011 for late fall planting in

 2
