COLTER
Colter is a six-rowed spring feed and malting barley. It was released by the USDA-ARS and the Idaho, Oregon, and
Washington AESs in 1991. It was selected from the cross Steptoe/Larker//Karla. Its experimental designation was
79Ab10719-66LC. Colter is similar to Steptoe in height and heading date (medium early), but has better lodging
resistance and slightly better grain yield and test weight. It has moderately lax spikes, smooth awns, and kernels with
white aleurone. Lemma barbs are few to none. Rachilla hairs are long. It has relatively low kernel plumpness, is high in
malt extract, but low in protein content, and relatively low in diastatic power and alpha amylase levels. At the time of
evaluation it was susceptible to stripe rust, powdery mildew, BYD, and kernel blight (caused by Alternaria spp.). It was
evaluated as Entry 853 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program in 1991 and from 1993-1998 for spring planting in
the intermountain area of northern California. Crop Science 33:1401 (1993)

COLUMBIA
Columbia is a six-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by Western Plant Breeders in 1982. It was selected from the
cross Gus/Kombar. Columbia is derived from F8 head selections from an F7 bulk tested as BFP-78-63. Columbia is a
semi-dwarf (5-12 cm taller than Gus) with stiff straw (good lodging resistance) and late season maturity (4-6 days later
than Gus). It has a semi-prostrate growth habit when planted in the fall (north-central to southern California) and a erect
growth habit when planted in the spring (northern California). The spike is erect, but not dense, and is strap-shaped.
Lemma awns are long and semi-smooth. The kernels are mid-long, covered, and white with blue aleurone. The hull is
semi-wrinkled, lemma teeth are numerous, and the rachilla hairs are long. The glumes are approximately one-half the
length of the lemma and covered with short hairs. The glume awns are less that equal to the length of the glumes and
have a rough surface. At the time of release Columbia was resistant to moderately resistant to scald, powdery mildew
and net blotch, and susceptible to moderately susceptible to leaf rust, BYD, and spot blotch. Is subsequently became
susceptible to scald. It was evaluated as Entry 637 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from 1983-1991 for
spring planting in the intermountain area of northern California and for late fall planting in the Central Valley and the
south-central coastal regions of California.

COMPANA
Compana is a two-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by the Montana AES in 1941. It was a selection from
Composite Cross I, CIho 4116. It is drought resistant, shattering resistant, and less susceptible to attach by grasshoppers
than other varieties available at the time of its release. It is early maturing and has semi-smooth awns. Plants are short
and erect. It has long hairs covering the glume or in a band, and the glume awn is equal to the length of the glume. The
hull is adhering, slightly wrinkled on back and wrinkled on the crease side. It has colorless aleurone. Rachilla hairs are
long. The central vein is weakly developed and lateral veins are moderately prominent. There are no barbs on lateral
veins. The crease is narrow at the base and flared at the beard end. Kernels are large, wide, and plump. At the time of
release, Compana was moderately resistant to covered smut and susceptible to stripe mosaic virus. It was evaluated as
Entry 465 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program in 1981 for spring planting in the intermountain region of northern
California. Journal of American Society of Agronomy 33:252 (1941)

CONLON
Conlon is a two-rowed spring malting barley. It was developed by North Dakota AES and released in 1996. It was
selected from the cross Bowman*2/Brigitta mutant//ND10232. It is best adapted to western North Dakota and adjacent
western states. Test weight and yield is better than Bowman. Yield is equal to Stark. Conlon heads earlier than Bowman
and shows good heat tolerance by maintaining kernel plumpness. It is prone to lodging under high yield growing
conditions. It is resistant to powdery mildew and net blotch but is moderately susceptible to spot blotch. It was evaluated
as Entry 1298 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program in 2011 for spring planting in the intermountain region of
northern California.

COUGBAR
Cougbar is a six-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by the Washington State University Agriculture Research
Center in cooperation with the Idaho and Oregon AESs in 1985. It was selected from the cross Beacon//7136-62/6773-
71. Its experimental designation was WA 14583-77. Plants are medium height with stiff straw. Maturity is similar to
Steptoe and Morex (early). Heads are lax, 10% erectoides. The awns are rough and long and glumes have medium length
hairs. Kernels are mid-long and moderately plump with smooth adhering hulls, short rachilla hairs, prominent veins, a
crease that is closed at the base and flared at the tip, and a white aleurone. Yield is higher than Morex and Advance, and
equal to Steptoe. Test weight is similar to Morex. At the time of release, it was resistant to powdery mildew and

 15
