FIESTA
Fiesta is a six-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by Western Plant Breeders in 1986. It was selected as a single F2
plant from the F2 bulk of crosses between WPB's short-strawed, male sterile barley populations and WPB's advanced
lines. It is derived from F6 plant selections from an F5 bulk tested under the experimental number PH 583-10. Fiesta is a
semi-dwarf with stiff straw (good lodging resistance) and medium early to early maturity. Early growth is prostrate. The
spike is strap-shaped, erect but not dense, with rachis edges covered with hairs. Glumes are more than one-half the length
of the lemma with rough awns that are more than equal to the length of the glumes. Lemma awns are long and rough
with few teeth and no hairs. Kernels are mid-long to long with long rachilla hairs, semi-wrinkled hulls, and white
aleurone. At the time of evaluation Fiesta was resistant to BYD, and susceptible to moderately susceptible to net blotch,
leaf rust, stripe rust, scald and powdery mildew. It was evaluated as Entry 703 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing
program from 1985-1997 for late fall planting in the Central Valley and the south-central coastal regions of California.

FOSTER
Foster is a six-rowed spring malting and feed barley. It was released by North Dakota AES in 1995. It was selected from
the cross Robust/6/Glenn/4/Nordic//Dickson/Trophy/3/Azure/5/Glenn/Karl. Its experimental designation was ND11055.
It has midseason maturity (heads 1 day earlier than Robust), is mid-tall (4 cm shorter than Robust), and has moderately
strong straw. Foster has semi-smooth awns. The spike is medium lax, medium long, and semi-erect. Kernels are covered.
Rachilla hairs are long. Aleurone is white. Central and lateral veins are moderately prominent. There are no barbs on
lateral veins. The crease is V-shaped, narrow at the base. Lateral kernels are moderately twisted. Percent grain protein is
up to 1.5 percentage units lower than Robust. Foster has more plump kernels and similar malt extract and enzymatic
activity as the six-rowed industry standard Morex. At the time of release it was resistant to spot blotch and stem rust
(except race QCC), moderately susceptible to net blotch and BYD, and susceptible to loose smut, scald, stripe rust, and
to several Septoria sp and Fusarium spp that attack barley in the Midwest. It was evaluated as Entry 963 in the UC
Regional Cereal Testing program from 1996-1997 and from 2001-02 for spring planting in the intermountain
region of northern California. Crop Science 37:1018 (1997)

GALENA
Galena is a two-rowed spring malting barley. It was released by Coors Brewing Company in 1993. It was selected from
the cross Triumph/Crystal. It was grown primarily under irrigation in southern Idaho, Wyoming, and Montana. It has
medium late maturity (1 day earlier than Triumph and 1 day later than Crystal), and short to medium length strong straw.
Spikes are semi-lax and nodding. Rachis edges are hairy. Awns are rough. The glume is half the length of the lemma.
Long hairs completely cover the glume. Glume awns are equal in length to the glume. The hull is finely wrinkled. The
aleurone is colorless. Rachilla hairs are long. Lateral veins are moderately prominent. There are no barbs on lateral veins.
The crease is narrow, slightly V-shaped from the base. At the time of evaluation it was moderately susceptible to stripe
rust and susceptible to scald and BYD. It was evaluated as Entry 1006 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from
1998-2000 for spring planting in the intermountain region of northern California.

GALLATIN
Gallatin is a two-rowed spring feed barley. It was jointly released by the USDA-ARS and the Montana and Idaho AESs
in 1986. It was selected from the cross Summit/Hector. Its experimental designation was MT 313104. It was adapted to
dryland and irrigated areas of the Pacific Northwest and Northern Great Plains. It has midseason maturity (1 day earlier
in heading than Hector). It is mid-tall with fair straw strength (3 cm shorter with much stiffer straw compared to Hector).
Spikes are semi-nodding before maturity with rough awns. Kernels are white, midsized with short rachilla hairs and
adhering, finely wrinkled hulls. Veins are moderately prominent. There are no barbs on lateral veins. The crease is
narrow at the base, tending to flare at the beard end. Gallatin has slightly higher test weight with a similar percentage of
plump kernels compared to Hector. At the time of evaluation it was moderately resistant to net blotch and susceptible to
scald. It was evaluated as Entry 717 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from 1985-1989 for spring planting in
the intermountain region of northern California. Crop Science 27:815 (1987)

GARNET
Garnet is a two-rowed spring feed and malting barley. It was released by the USDA-ARS and the Idaho AES in 1999. It
was selected from the cross Harrington/78Ab6871(Crystal). Its experimental designation was 86Ab2317. It has good
malting quality characteristics and was expected to compete favorably with existing two-rowed spring barley cultivars in
irrigated and many non-irrigated or dryland environments in Idaho and other western states. Garnet has midseason

 18
