recommended for production under irrigation. Millennium is a erect-growing semi-dwarf (averages about 38 inches in
plant height) with good straw strength and early to midseason maturity (heads at the same time as Steptoe). Spikes are
tapering, erect (lax to dense) with some overlap of lateral kernels at the tip of the head. Rachis edges are covered with
hairs. Millennium has waxy leaves and spikes. Glumes are long with extremely long, rough glume awns. Glumes are
completely covered with long hairs. Lemma awns are erect (non-flaring), long, and rough. The seed is covered, mid-
long, semi-wrinkled, with long rachilla hairs and a depression at the base. Aleurone color is white. Most stems have a
straight neck and most spikes are marked by a closed collar at the base. At the time of release it was resistant to loose
smut and covered smut, moderately susceptible to powdery mildew, and susceptible to stripe rust and BYD. It was
evaluated as Entry 1010 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from 1998-present for spring planting in the
intermountain region of northern California. Crop Science 42:665-666 (2002)

PINNACLE
Pinnacle is a two-rowed spring malting barley. It was released by the North Dakota AES in 2006. It was derived from the
cross ND18172/ND19130. It is a high yielding, lower protein cultivar that accumulates about 40% less DON than
Robust. Pinnacle has excellent quality characteristics. Compared with Conlon, Pinnacle has lower protein and a higher
percentage of plump kernels. Pinnacle has greater resistance to spot blotch than Conlon, and approaches that of Lacey
and Drummond. Pinnacle has a white hull, long rachilla hairs, smooth awns, white aleurone, medium-late maturity,
medium height, and strong straw strength. At the time of release it was moderately resistant to spot blotch, moderately
susceptible to net blotch, and susceptible to stem rust and loose smut. It was evaluated as Entry 1300 in the UC Regional
Cereal Testing program from 2011-present for spring planting in the intermountain region of northern California.

SOLAR
Solar is a six-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by the Arizona AES in 2006. It is a selection from the male sterile
facilitated recurrent selection population, Composite Cross 39. Its experimental designation was Entry 2. It was released
as a winter crop for low water use environments in the Southwestern United States and Arizona where only one or two
irrigations (6-12 inches) are applied. It is early maturing (heads about 2 days later than Solum). It is tall (averages about
46 inches in plant height, about 2 inches taller than Solum) with erect early growth and good straw strength. The spikes
are lax and erect with rough awns. The glumes are more than one-half the length of the lemma and have long hairs
confined to a band. The glume awns are longer than the length of the glumes. Kernels are covered, white, and mid-long
to long with semi-wrinkled hulls. At the time of evaluation it was susceptible to stripe rust and scald. It was evaluated as
Entry 1211 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from 2007-2008 for late fall planting in the Central Valley and
the south-central coastal regions of California. Arizona AES (2006)

STELLAR-ND
Stellar-ND is a six-rowed spring malting barley. It was released by the North Dakota AES in 2006. It was derived from
the cross Foster//ND12200/6B88-3213. It has semi-smooth awns, covered kernels, long-rachilla hairs, and white
aleurone. It is three cm shorter and heads similar to Drummond. It has stronger straw and yields about 8% more than
Robust. At the time of release it was resistant to spot blotch and prevalent pathotypes of wheat stem rust except Pgt-
QCC, moderately susceptible to net blotch, and susceptible to loose smut. It was evaluated as Entry 1302 in the UC
Regional Cereal Testing program from 2011-present for spring planting in the intermountain region of northern
California. Crop Sci 46(2):980.

STEPTOE
Steptoe is a six-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by Washington State University in 1973. It was selected from
the cross WA 3564/Unitan (= selection from CC V/Unitan) made in 1959. The selection 6428-66 was made in 1966.
This selection was in the F12 generation when approved for release in 1972. Its experimental designation was WA6428-
66. Steptoe is tall when planted in high yielding conditions, is susceptible to lodging and has early to intermediate
maturity. It is tolerant of cold and may be fall-seeded in areas where winter killing is not a serious problem. It produces
erect spikes with rough awns. Kernels are large and plump, with white aleurone and long rachilla hairs. It is adapted to
high and low rainfall areas of eastern Washington, as well as Idaho, eastern Oregon and Montana. It was the standard for
California’s Intermountain region and was the highest yielding barley in the Pacific Northwest for many years. At the
time of evaluation it was moderately resistant to powdery mildew, moderately susceptible to scald and leaf rust, and
susceptible to net blotch, BYD, and stripe rust. It was evaluated as Entry 204 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program
from 1980-present for spring planting in the intermountain region of northern California. Crop Science 13:770 (1973)

 4
