program in 1998 for late fall planting in the Central Valley and south- central coastal regions of California.

CAMELOT
Camelot is a two-rowed spring feed barley. It is medium late maturing and mid-tall with poor straw strength. It was
evaluated as Entry 851 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program in 1991 for spring planting in the intermountain
region of northern California.

CENTURY
Century is a six-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by the Utah AES in 1997. It was selected from the cross
WA641566/Bracken. Its experimental designation was UT1705-L. It has midseason maturity and medium height with
fair straw strength. It has strap-shaped, lax spikes with little overlap of lateral kernels at the tip of the spike and short
hairs on the rachis edges. It has waxy leaves and spikes. Glumes are long, with short hairs confined to a band, and have
medium length, semi-smooth glume awns. Lemma awns are long and rough. Stigmas are heavily feathered. Seed is
covered, mid-long-to-long, semi-wrinkled, with numerous long rachilla hairs, and a transverse crease at the base.
Aleurone color is white. The base of most spikes is marked by a closed collar. At the time of evaluation it was resistant
to covered smut but less resistant to loose smut than Steptoe, Rollo, Walker, or Statehood. At the time of evaluation it
was moderately resistant to powdery mildew and susceptible to stripe rust. It was evaluated as Entry 1015 in the UC
Regional Cereal Testing program in 1998 for spring planting in the intermountain region of northern California. Crop
Science 40:1506 (2000)

CLARK
Clark is a two-rowed spring feed and malting barley. It was jointly developed by the USDA-ARS and Montana AES and
released in 1981. It was selected from the cross Hector/Klages. Its experimental designation was MT 547234. It is
adapted to irrigated and dryland conditions in Montana and dryland conditions in the Great Plains area. It has midseason
maturity (2 days earlier in heading than Klages) and is mid-tall with fair straw strength (similar to Klages in lodging).
Spikes are mid-lax, mid-long, nodding, with rough awns and long haired rachilla. Veins are moderately prominent. There
are no barbs on lateral veins. The crease is narrow and shallow at the base tending to flare at the tip. Kernels are mid-size
with finely wrinkled hulls. Aleurone is colorless. At the time of release it had more tolerance to spot blotch, net blotch
and common root rot than Klages. It was evaluated as Entry 636 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from 1982-
1985 for spring planting in the intermountain region of northern California. Crop Science 25:197 (1985)

CM 67
CM 67 is a six-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by the California AES in 1968. It was selected from the cross
California Mariout*5/CIho 2376//6*California Mariout/2*Club Mariout. It is short-statured with early maturity. It is
rough awned with medium dense spikes. Kernels are large with white aleurone and long-haired rachilla. At the time of
release it was highly tolerant to BYD (carries the Yd2 gene from CIho 2376) and susceptible to scald and powdery
mildew. It yields similar to California Mariout under disease-free conditions, but 22% greater in virus infected areas. It
was evaluated as Entry 4 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program for late fall planting in the Central Valley and the
south-central coastal regions of California. Crop Science
9:521 (1969)

CM 72
CM 72 is a six-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by the California AES in 1974. It was selected from the cross
California Mariout*4/CIho 1179//2*California Mariout*/Club Mariout/3/CM 67. CM 72 is the second backcross-derived
strain of the original California Mariout. It differs from the earlier release, CM 67, by the addition of the Mla gene for
resistance to powdery mildew. CM 72 also carries resistance to the barley yellow dwarf virus (Yd2 gene from CI 2376).
It was adapted to areas where CM 67 or California Mariout were grown. CM 72 has short, weak straw (is very
susceptible to lodging) and is early maturing. The spike is parallel, mid-dense, and nodding at maturity. The basal rachis
internode is straight and the rachis edges are completely covered with hair. The rachilla is long-haired. The lemma awn
is long and semi-smooth. The glume awn is greater in length than the glume and is rough. The glume is greater than one-
half the length of the lemma. The kernels are large, with semi-wrinkled hulls and white aleurone. At the time of release
CM 72 was resistant to BYD and powdery mildew, moderately resistant to leaf rust and net blotch, and susceptible to
scald. It was evaluated as Entry 191 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from 1980-1994 for late fall planting in
the Central Valley and the south-central coastal regions of California. Crop Science 17:485 (1977)

 14
