ROBUST
Robust is a six-rowed spring malting barley. It was released by the Minnesota AES in 1983. It was selected from the
cross Morex/Manker. Its experimental designation was M36. It is adapted to barley growing areas in the upper Midwest.
It is smooth-awned with medium early maturity (matures 2-3 days earlier than Morex). Plants are mid-tall with
moderately strong straw. Spikes are medium-lax, medium-long and semi-erect. Kernels are covered, medium-large with
short haired rachilla and white aleurone. The central vein is moderately prominent, lateral veins are less prominent and
disappearing near the center of the kernel. There are no barbs on the lateral veins. The crease is V-shaped and narrow at
the base. Lateral kernels are moderately twisted, plump, wide at the center, and full on the crease side. It is superior to
Morex in grain yield, kernel plumpness and lodging resistance. At the time of release it was highly resistant to stem rust
and spot blotch and susceptible to loose smut. It was evaluated as Entry 688 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program
from 1984-1985, in 1993, and in 2011 for spring planting in the intermountain region of northern California. Crop

Science 23:1216 (1983)

ROLLO
Rollo is a six-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by the Utah AES in 1991. It was selected from the cross
Bracken/UT75B65-532 (ID633019/Woodvale). Its experimental designation was UT 1075. It has midseason maturity
and is similar to Steptoe in plant height, and lodging (susceptible). Compared to Steptoe, its heads 3 days later, is equal
in test weight and 1 cm shorter, but has stronger straw (30 vs. 51% lodging for Steptoe). Spikes are erect with little or no
overlap of the lateral kernels, and sparse hairs on the rachis edges. Glumes are long, with hairs restricted to the middle,
and have medium-to-long, semi-smooth glume awns. Lemma awns are long and semi-smooth and have distinctly purple
tips prior to maturity. The seed is covered, mid-long, slightly wrinkled, with long rachilla hairs and a transverse crease at
the base. Aleurone color is white. At the time of release it had field resistance to barley loose smut and covered smut and
moderate resistance to powdery mildew. It subsequently became susceptible to stripe rust. It was evaluated as Entry 903
in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from 1993-1998 for spring planting in the intermountain region of northern
California. Crop Science 33:1412-1413 (1993)

RUSSELL
Russell is a six-rowed spring feed and malting barley. It was released by the USDA-ARS and the Idaho and Oregon
AESs in 1985. It was selected from the cross Karla/ND1265. Its experimental designation was 78Ab9009-5RC. Plants
are "Karla-type" with improved kernel plumpness, slightly shorter straw, and earlier heading. It is susceptible to lodging,
but lodges less than Steptoe. It is superior in test weight and similar in height (mid-tall) and heading date to Steptoe
(heads about 1 day earlier than Steptoe at Tulelake). Spikes are relatively lax and mid-long. Awns are smooth. Glumes
are covered with short hairs. The hull is adhering and wrinkled. The aleurone is colorless. Rachilla hairs are short. Veins
are moderately prominent and there are numerous barbs on lateral veins. The crease is narrow to closed at the base and
flared toward the awn end. Lateral kernels are relatively plump and slightly twisted. At the time of evaluation it was
susceptible to stripe rust, kernel blight (caused by Alternaria spp) and powdery mildew, and moderately susceptible to
scald. It was evaluated as Entry 658 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from 1983-1984 and from 1993-1995
for spring planting in the intermountain region of northern California. Crop Science 28:574 (1988)

SAMISH 23
Samish 23 is a two-rowed spring feed and malting barley. It was developed by Fossum Cereals in Washington. It was
selected from the cross 85Ab2323/Acclaim. It is late maturing and short-statured with good straw strength. At the time of
evaluation it was resistant to stripe rust. It was evaluated as Entry 1176 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program in
2005 for spring planting in the intermountain region of northern California.

SARA
Sara is a six-rowed spring hooded feed barley. It was developed by the Oregon AES and exclusively released to Winema
Elevators Inc. of Tulelake, CA in 2001. It was selected from the cross Marco/Fragil//Cali92/3/Gloria-Bar/Come-
b//Esperanza. Sara is a stripe rust resistant hooded spring barley developed by Hugo Vivar (retired; CARDA/CIMMYT).
Pat Hayes, OSU barley breeder, brought a collection of ICARDA/CIMMYT stripe rust resistant hooded lines to Oregon
in 1998 and two lines ('Sara I' and 'Sara II') were selected from plots grown at the Klamath Falls Experiment Station,
based on stripe rust resistance and phenotypic appearance. Sara I was identified by J.W. Cope (Winema Elevators;
Tulelake, California) as having potential for inclusion in forage mixes. The OSU Statewide Variety Testing Program
conducted a forage trial at Corvallis in 2001. Sara and Washford were included in this test. Sara was taller, earlier, and

 29
