intermountain region of northern California.

BANCROFT
Bancroft is a two-rowed spring feed barley. It was developed cooperatively by the USDA-ARS and the Idaho, Colorado,
and Oregon AESs and released in 2000. It was selected from the cross Hector/60Ab1810-53. Its experimental
designation was 78Ab10274. It is midseason in maturity, 3 days earlier than Crystal and 2 days earlier than Harrington.
It is mid-tall, similar in plant height to Crystal and Harrington, but inferior in straw strength. Spikes are lax. Awns are
rough. Kernels are covered and have white aleurone. Rachilla hairs are long. Barbs on lateral veins are few to none.
Lemmas are typically wrinkled. Glumes are covered with long hairs. Rachis edges have numerous hairs. At the time of
release it was resistant to stripe rust. It was evaluated as Entry 1014 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program in 1998
for spring planting in the intermountain region of northern California. Crop Science 41:265-266 (2001)

BARETTA
Baretta is a six-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by Arizona Plant Breeders. It was selected from a male-sterile
facilitated recurrent selection population (MSFRS POP, SEL B91-3). Its experimental designation was APB B-712. It is
medium-late maturing, medium-short height with fair to poor straw strength. At the time of evaluation it was moderately
resistant to BYD, moderately susceptible to net blotch and leaf rust, and susceptible to scald and stripe rust. It was
evaluated as Entry 944 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from 1995-1996 and in 1998 for late fall planting in
the Central Valley and south-central coastal regions of
California.

BEARPAW
Bearpaw is a two-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by the Montana AES in cooperation with the USDA-ARS in
1989. It was selected from the cross TR440/Clark = Klages//Zephyr/Centennial/3/Clark. Its experimental designation
was MT 81616. It has midseason maturity and is mid-tall with fair straw strength. Spikes are mid-lax, mid-long and
nodding at maturity. It has rough awns. Kernels are mid-size with long-haired rachillas and adhering finely wrinkled,
thin hulls, and white aleurone. It is 2 days later in heading, has a similar percentage of plump kernels, is 3 cm shorter and
has stiffer straw than Hector. It was adapted to dryland and irrigated areas in central and north central Montana, Pacific
Northwest and Northern Great Plains. At the time of evaluation it was resistant to powdery mildew and net blotch and
susceptible to leaf rust. It was evaluated as Entry 774 in 1988 and as Entry 822 in 1990 in the UC Regional Cereal
Testing program for spring planting in the intermountain region of northern California and for late fall planting in the
Central Valley and south-central coastal regions of California. Crop Science 30(2): 421 (1990)

BELFORD
Belford is a six-rowed hooded spring barley. It was developed at the Washington AES and released in 1943. It was
selected from the cross Beldi Giant/Horsford. Early growth is erect to semi-prostrate. It has medium maturity, tall plant
height, and moderately weak straw. The basal rachis internode is curve or straight, 1-3 mm long. The rachis is tough with
short-haired edges. The spike is lax, short to mid-long, parallel, slightly waxy, erect to inclined. The lemma is hooded
and the hoods are elevated, without appendage on the middle lobe or with a very short one. The glume awn is equal to
the length of the glume and is rough. Glumes are one-half to two-thirds the length of the lemma and are covered with
short hairs. The rachilla is short haired. Kernels are blue. Hulls are slightly wrinkled to semi-wrinkled. It is moderately
susceptible to scald and susceptible to stripe rust, leaf rust, and BYD.

BELLA UNION
Bella Union is a six-rowed spring feed barley. It was developed by CIMMYT. It has early maturity, mid-tall plant height,
and poor straw strength. At the time of evaluation it was resistant to powdery mildew, net blotch, scald, and stripe rust
and moderately resistant to BYD. It was evaluated as Entry 1120 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program in 2003 for
late fall planting in the Central Valley and south-central coastal regions of California.

BELLONA
Bellona is a two-rowed spring malting barley. It was released by Cebeco Seeds, the Netherlands, in 1983, and distributed
by Wilbur-Ellis Co. It was selected from the cross Aramir//Aramir/Bomi. Its experimental designation was Cebeco 7931.
It has late maturity, short plant height, and good straw strength. Spikes are long, initially erect and semi-drooping during
ripening, and rather narrow with moderately strong anthocyanin coloration of the awns. It has long rachilla hairs. It was
evaluated as Entry 722 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from 1985-1986 for spring planting in the
intermountain region of northern California.

 12
