Devora is a two-rowed winter feed barley. It was released by Cebeco Seeds, the Netherlands. It was selected from the
cross Mosar x E82011-8805 x Magie. It is medium-late maturing and mid-tall with good straw strength. At the time of
evaluation it was resistant to net blotch, stripe rust, and leaf rust. It was evaluated as Entry 1181 in the UC Regional
Cereal Testing program in 2006 for fall planting in the intermountain region of northern California and late fall planting
in the Central Valley and the south-central coastal region of California.

GWEN
Gwen is a six-rowed winter feed barley. It was released by the Oregon AES in 1991. It was selected from the cross Ohio
67-23/Lakeland. Its experimental designation was ORFB 77796. It is small headed, early maturing with medium height,
good lodging resistance, and excellent winter hardiness (similar to Boyer). It has good yield in areas with low to medium
yield potential; it is not meant for high yield environments. At the time of evaluation it was tolerant to BYD, moderately
susceptible to scald, and susceptible to stripe rust. It was evaluated as Entry 879 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing
program from 1993-1995 for fall planting in the intermountain region of northern California.

HESK
Hesk is a six-rowed winter feed barley. It was released by the Oregon AES in 1980. It was selected from the cross
Ione/Luther. It has medium-late season maturity, medium height, good lodging resistance, and fair winter hardiness. It
performs well in high pH soils. Spikes are nearly lax and erect. Rachis edge hairs are long. Awns are rough and medium
long. Glumes are covered with short hairs. The glume awn is nearly equal to glume length. Hulls are adhering and
smooth. The kernel is medium size and medium long. Aleurone is colorless, occasionally light blue. Rachilla hairs are
long. Kernel veins are prominent, with several barbs on lateral veins. The crease is narrow, V-shaped. At the time of
evaluation it was susceptible to scald, BYD, covered smut, and stripe rust. It was evaluated as Entry 568 in the UC
Regional Cereal Testing program from 1982-1985 and from 1987-2003 for fall planting in the intermountain region of
northern California.

HOODY
Hoody is a six-rowed winter (hooded) forage barley. It was released by the Oregon AES in 1995. It was selected from a
three-way cross, [Dicktoo/Cascade//Hiproly (winter hardy/winter-adapted//spring-high lysine)] by [Missouri early
Beardless/CI 10432 (Hooded-foliar disease resistance/hardy]. The cross was made from selections from bulk populations
provided by Dr. Charles Rhodes, retired Oregon State University plant breeder. That cross was then crossed to a
selection from a population of [SC714662/Nebar (BYDV + scald resistance/winter hardy)]. Its experimental designation
was Fbw1001hdd. It is moderately winter hardy and has good BYD tolerance. It is tall with medium maturity and fair
straw strength. The spike is mid-dense. The rachis is short and straight. The collar is closed to V-shaped. The glume is
normal with a hooded awn. The rachis edge has short hairs. The kernel is covered. Lemma nerves appear smooth.
Rachilla hairs are short and abortive. The hull is white. The aleurone is white. It is moderately resistant to scald,
moderately susceptible to net blotch, and susceptible to stripe rust and leaf rust. At the time of release hay yields were
superior to those of eastern United States winter hay barleys. It was evaluated as Entry 1130 in the UC Regional Cereal
Testing program in 2004 for fall planting in the intermountain region of northern California and in 2008 for fall planting
in the Central Valley of California.

HUNDRED
Hundred is a six-rowed winter feed barley. It was released by the Washington Agricultural Research Center and Idaho
and Oregon AESs in 1989. It was selected from the cross Luther/Hudson//Alpine/Svalof//White Winter/Triple Bearded
Mariout-305. Its experimental designations were WA 066739 and WA1574-77. It is a semi-dwarf with medium height
and medium late maturity. It is slightly shorter than Boyer, similar in maturity and lodging resistance, with very good
winter-hardiness. It is adapted to dryland or irrigated conditions in eastern Washington and adjacent areas of Idaho and
Oregon. It has club-shaped erect spikes with long rough awns. The relatively small, globose kernels have semi-smooth,
tightly adhering hulls with white aleurone, short rachilla hairs, and prominent veins. The crease is narrow at the base and
flaring toward the awn. At the time of evaluation it was more resistant to scald, Cephalosporium stripe and powdery
mildew than Kamiak, Boyer and Showin, moderately resistant to BYD, and susceptible to stripe rust. It was evaluated as
Entry 877 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program in 1991and from 1993-1996 for fall planting in the intermountain
region of northern California. Crop Science 31(1): 227 (1991)

KAMIAK
Kamiak is a six-rowed winter feed barley. It was released by the Washington, Idaho and Oregon AESs in 1971. It was

 7
