is tall (similar in height to Stander and about 5 cm shorter than Robust) and has fair straw strength (straw strength
superior to Robust, Stander and Foster). It is medium late maturing (has a heading date similar to Robust). Drummond
has semi-smooth awns and its covered kernels have long rachilla hairs and a white aleurone. Spikes are medium-lax,
medium-long, and semi-erect. It has more plump kernels and higher malt extract than the 6-rowed industry standard
Morex. Grain protein, wort protein, and the ratio of wort protein to total protein of Drummond are slightly lower that that
of Morex. Enzymatic activity of Drummond and Morex are similar. At the time of release Drummond was resistant to
spot blotch, moderately susceptible to stem rust (race Qcc), net blotch, and BYD, and susceptible to loose smut, scald,
several Septoria sp and Fusarium spp that attack barley in the Midwest. It was evaluated as Entry 1080 in the UC
Regional Cereal Testing program from 2001-2002 for spring planting in the intermountain region of northern California.
Crop Science 42: 664-665 (2002)

EARLY 28
Early 28 is a six-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by the University of Arizona. It was selected from a male-
sterile facilitated recurrent selection population (CCXXIX). Its experimental designation was 80-MA-666-172. It is very
early maturing. It was evaluated as Entry 625 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program in 1982 for spring planting in
the intermountain region of northern California.

EARLY 32
Early 32 is a six-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by the University of Arizona. It was selected from a male-
sterile facilitated recurrent selection population (CCXXIX). Its experimental designation was 80-MA-666-173. It is very
early maturing and has medium-short plant height and poor straw strength. At the time of evaluation it was moderately
resistant to net blotch, moderately susceptible to leaf rust, and susceptible to scald, BYD, and powdery mildew. It was
evaluated as Entry 624 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program in 1982 for late fall planting in the Central Valley
and the south-central coastal regions of California.

ELLINOR
Ellinor is a two-rowed spring malting and feed barley. It was received for testing from Lynn Gallagher, UC Davis, in
1999. It is late maturing and has medium plant height and fair straw strength. At the time of evaluation it was moderately
susceptible to BYD. It was evaluated as Entry 1038 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program in 1999 for spring
planting in the intermountain region of northern California.

EXCEL
Excel is a six-rowed spring malting barley. It was released by the Minnesota AES in 1990. It was selected from the cross
Cree/Bonanza//Manker/3/2*Robust. Its experimental designation was MN 52. It is medium late maturing (similar to
Robust) and is mid-tall (shorter than Morex or Robust) with fair straw strength (similar to Robust in lodging reaction).
Spikes are medium-lax, medium-long, and semi-erect. Excel has smooth-awns, covered medium-sized kernels that have
long hairs on the rachilla and a white aleurone. Hulls are adhering and wrinkled. Central and lateral veins are moderately
prominent. There are few to no barbs on lateral veins. The crease is narrow at the base and flared toward the beard end.
Lateral kernels are moderately twisted. Excel’s malting quality is similar or superior to Morex. At the time of release it
was resistant to stem rust (contains the T-gene for resistance) and spot blotch, moderately resistant to net blotch, and
susceptible to loose smut. It was evaluated as Entry 823 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from 1990-1991 and
in 1993 for spring planting in the intermountain region of northern California. Crop Science 31:227 (1991)

FARMINGTON
Farmington is a two-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by Washington State University Agricultural Research
Center, Idaho and Oregon AESs, and USDA-ARS in 2001. It was selected from the cross Klages/WA8189-69//Piroline
SD Mutant/Valticky SD Mutant/3/Maresi. Its experimental designation was WA9504-94. It is a semi-dwarf with
adaptation to mid to high precipitation and irrigated areas in eastern Washington and adjoining areas of Idaho and
Oregon. It has medium-short plant height (averages 60 cm compared to 68 cm for Baronesse) and good straw strength. It
has mid-season maturity, similar to Baronesse. Spikes are lax and slightly nodding. Awns are long and rough. Kernels
are covered, with white aleurone, long rachilla hairs, a narrow crease, prominent veins, and wrinkled lemma and palea on
the distal half. Kernels are plump and tapering at both ends. At the time of release it was resistant to leaf rust and had
partial resistance or tolerance to stripe rust. It was evaluated as Entry 1096 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program
from 2002-2004 for spring planting in the intermountain region of northern California. Crop Science 42:2209-2210
(2002)

 17
