had a higher grain yield than Washford. Sara has white aleurone. In addition its resistance to stripe rust, Sara is resistant
to scald and moderately resistant to BYD. Sara was tested in a fall-sown spring barley nursery at Davis, CA in 2006 and
was evaluated as Entry 1226 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program in 2007 for spring planting for hay in the
intermountain region of northern California. Oregon AES (2001)

SECO
Seco is a six-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by USDA-ARS, USDA-SCS, and the Arizona AES in 1987. It is a
selection from the male sterile facilitated recurrent selection population, Composite Cross 39. Its experimental
designations were AZ 2-22-1, 9047432, and T47432. It is a robust, rough-awned type. It is early maturing and tall, with
poor straw strength. Spikes are lax and non-waxy. Lemmas are slightly wrinkled to wrinkled and have purple veins.
Kernels predominantly have a white aleurone, occasionally blue, and have long rachilla hairs. Vertical root development
extends beyond 2.5 m under favorable conditions, which provides excellent drought tolerance. It is recommended for
planting as a winter cover crop, green manure crop or for erosion control. It is adapted to west Texas and southern
portions of Arizona, New Mexico and California. It is drought and salt tolerant. At the time of evaluation it was resistant
to net blotch and leaf rust, moderately susceptible to scald, and susceptible to BYD. It was evaluated as Entry 701 in the
UC Regional Cereal Testing program in 1985 and from 1991-1994 for late fall planting in rainfed production areas of the
Central Valley foothills and the south-central coastal regions of California. Crop Science 29:487-488 (1989)

SIGRA
Sigra is a hooded spring forage barley. It was developed in Germany. It is late maturing and medium tall, with good
straw strength. At the time of evaluation it was resistant to scald, net blotch, leaf rust, and powdery mildew. It was
evaluated as Entry 796 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program in 1989 for late fall planting in the Central Valley
and the south-central coastal regions of California.

SOLUM
Solum is a six-rowed spring feed barley. It was jointly released by the USDA-ARS and Arizona and California AESs in
1992. It is a selection from the male sterile facilitated recurrent selection population, Composite Cross 39. Its
experimental designation was AZ 2-22-9. Solum was developed for low water use environments in the Southwestern
United States: in Arizona where only one or two irrigations (6-12 inches) are applied and in California under rainfed
conditions where rainfall is usually less than 15 inches. It has erect early growth, early maturity (matures about 3 days
later than Seco and 5 days earlier than Arivat), and is mid-tall to tall with poor straw strength. Spikes are lax, mid-long,
with rough awns. Kernels are covered, white and long with slightly wrinkled to semi-wrinkled hulls. At the time of
evaluation it was resistant to net blotch and leaf rust and susceptible to scald and BYD. It was evaluated as Entry 702 in
the UC Regional Cereal Testing program in 1985 and from 1991-1996 for late fall planting in rainfed production areas of
the Central Valley foothills and the south-central coastal regions of California.

SPAULDING
Spaulding is a two-rowed spring feed barley. It was developed by Plant Breeders 1 (Idaho) and the Genetic Marketing
Group (Washington) and released in 2005. It was selected from the cross PB1-88-2R-801/VD403582. Its experimental
designation was PB1-95-2R-522. It is medium maturing and medium tall, with fair straw strength. At the time of
evaluation it was susceptible to stripe rust. It was evaluated as Entry 1151 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program
from 2004-2006 for spring planting in the intermountain region of northern California.

STANDER
Stander is a six-rowed spring malting barley. It was released by the Minnesota AES in 1993. It was selected from the
cross Excel//Robust/Bumper. Its experimental designation was M64. It is of similar height to Steptoe and Excel, and 6
cm shorter than Robust. It is moderately susceptible to lodging, but lodges less than Steptoe. It has intermediate maturity
(heads slightly earlier than Steptoe at Tulelake, and 1-2 days later than Robust). Spikes are medium long, medium lax,
and semi-erect. Awns are smooth. Glumes are covered with long hairs. Hulls are adhering and wrinkled. It has white
aleurone and short rachilla hairs. Central and lateral veins are moderately prominent. There are few to no barbs on lateral
veins. The crease is V-shaped and narrow at the base. Kernels are plump, wide at the center and tapering at both ends.
Lateral kernels are moderately twisted. It is similar or superior to Morex in malting quality, and has 36% higher alpha-
amylase and 1.2% higher extract compared to Morex. At the time of evaluation it was resistant to spot blotch and stem
rust, had some tolerance to net blotch, and was susceptible to loose smut, BYD, and stripe rust. It was evaluated as Entry
905 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from 1993-1998 for spring planting in the intermountain region of

 30
