from the cross Gimple/Nairn. It was developed through doubled haploid production using the Hordeum bulbosum
method. It is early maturing (heads about 3 days earlier than Moravian III) with medium short plant height (about 7
inches shorter than Moravian III) and good straw strength. Spikes are semi-lax and nodding. Rachis edges are hairy.
Awns are rough. The glume is more than half the length of the lemma and completely covered with short hairs. The hull
is slightly wrinkled. The aleurone is colorless. Rachilla hairs are long. Lateral veins are moderately prominent. There are
no barbs on lateral veins. The crease is narrow at the base and flared toward the awn end. At the time of evaluation it was
moderately susceptible to stripe rust and BYD. It was evaluated as Entry 1043 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing
program from 1999-2000 for spring planting in the intermountain region of northern California.

MORAVIAN 22
Moravian 22 is a two-rowed spring malting barley. It was developed by Coors Brewing Company. It is late maturing,
medium short, and has good straw strength. At the time of evaluation it was resistant to stripe rust and moderately
resistant to BYD. It was evaluated as Entry 1044 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from 1999-2000 for spring
planting in the intermountain region of northern California.

MOREX
Morex is a six-rowed spring malting barley. It was released by the Minnesota AES in 1978. It originated from an F5
plant selected from the cross Cree/Bonanza made in 1969. Its experimental designation was M25. The name Morex
(more extract) was chosen because the extract percentage of Morex exceeded that of other Midwestern six-rowed barleys
at the time of its release. It is adapted to barley growing areas in Minnesota, North Dakota and South Dakota. It is
superior to Larker in lodging reaction, yield and disease resistance. Morex is medium early in maturity, with medium
tall, moderately strong straw. Kernels are covered, medium-sized, with short rachilla hairs, wrinkled hulls, and white
aleurone. The spike is medium lax, medium long, and semi-erect with smooth awns. At the time of release Morex was
resistant to stem rust and loose smut, and moderately resistant to spot blotch. It subsequently became susceptible to stripe
rust. It was evaluated as Entry 576 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from 1980-1984 for spring planting in the
intermountain region of northern California. Crop Science 19:293 (1979)

MUCHO
Mucho is a six-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by Arizona Plant Breeders in 1993. It was selected from a male-
sterile facilitated recurrent selection population (CCXXXII). Its experimental designation was APB F-3. It is early
maturing, short-statured with poor straw strength. At the time of evaluation it was moderately resistant to leaf rust,
powdery mildew, and BYD, and susceptible to scald and net blotch. It was evaluated as Entry 872 in the UC Regional
Cereal Testing program from 1992-1995 for late fall planting in the Central Valley and south-central coastal regions of
California.

MULTUM
Multum is a six-rowed spring feed barley. It was marketed by Agricultural Products, Arizona. It is late maturing and has
medium tall plant height with good straw strength. At the time of evaluation it was resistant to net blotch, leaf rust, and
powdery mildew, moderately susceptible to scald, and susceptible to BYD. It was evaluated as Entry 573 in the UC
Regional Cereal Testing program from 1982-1983 for spring planting in the intermountain area of northern California
and for late fall planting in the Central Valley and the south-central coastal regions of California.

NEBULA
Nebula is a six-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by Western Plant Breeders in 1996. It was selected from the
cross Madera/PH 585-6. Its experimental designation was DA 592-47. It is medium late maturing with medium height
and good straw strength. It is awned and has blue aleurone. At the time of evaluation it was moderately susceptible to
leaf rust, net blotch and BYD, and susceptible to scald and stripe rust. It was evaluated as Entry 941 in the UC Regional
Cereal Testing program from 1995-2001 for late fall planting in the Central Valley and south-central coastal regions of
California.

NK BARLEY BLEND 50
NK Barley Blend 50 is a six-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by Northrup King & Co. It is a 50/50 blend of two
lines. It is medium late maturing with medium-short height and good straw strength. At the time of evaluation it was
resistant to powdery mildew, moderately resistant to leaf rust and BYD, and moderately susceptible to scald and net
blotch. It was evaluated as Entry 585 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from 1982-1984 for late fall planting in

 26
