California and for late fall planting in the Central Valley and the south-central coastal regions of California.

HANNCHEN
Hannchen is a two-rowed spring malting barley. It was developed by the Swedish Seed Association, Svalof, Sweden in
1904. It originated as a pureline selection from Hanna in 1893. It has medium to late maturity with weak to moderately
stiff straw strength and mid-tall height. Spikes are lax, long, and nodding. Rachis edges are long-haired. Awns are rough
and long. The glume is covered with long hairs and the glume awn is equal in length to the glume. The hull is adhering
and finely wrinkled. The aleurone is colorless. Rachilla hairs are long. Veins are weakly developed. There are no to few
barbs on lateral veins. The crease is narrow and shallow. It was adapted to the Klamath Falls-Tulelake region of Oregon
and California. Its 34-year average yield at Corvallis, Oregon was 33.6 bushels per acre, compared to 32.9 for Trebi. It is
resistant to some races of stripe and susceptible to powdery mildew. It was evaluated as Entry 467 in the UC Regional
Cereal Testing program for spring planting in the intermountain area of northern California. Agronomy Journal 50(11):
708 (1958)

HARLAND
Harland is a six-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by the California AES and USDA-ARS in 1967. It was
developed by evolutionary breeding from Composite Crosses II, V, XII, XIV, and XV through the use of male sterility in
a basic parentage of 700 lines. Harland is the F13 of composite Cross XVI. It has white, awned, covered kernels. There
are some traces of two-rowed spikes with black and hulless seeds. At the time of release its reaction to major foliar
diseases varied conspicuously from plant to plant, but presented a favorable average. It was evaluated as Entry 9 in the
UC Regional Cereal Testing program for late fall planting in the Central Valley and the south-central coastal regions of
California. Crop Science 8:514 (1968)

HARRINGTON
Harrington is a two-rowed spring malting barley. It was released by the University of Saskatchewan in 1981. It was
selected from the cross Klages/3/Gazelle/Betzes//Centennial. Its experimental designation was TR441. It has midseason
maturity (similar to Klages), is mid-tall and is susceptible to lodging. Spikes are medium long, medium lax and nodding,
with rough awns. The glume is covered with numerous long hairs, glume awns are longer than the glume, and the glume
is half the length of the lemma. The hull is adhering and slightly wrinkled. The aleurone is colorless. Rachilla hairs are
medium to long. Veins are well defined. There are no barbs on lateral veins. Kernels are plump, broad in relation to
length, and diamond shaped. It has higher yield potential than Klages. At the time of release it was susceptible to stripe
rust, stem rust, net blotch, speckled leaf blotch, and loose and covered smut, and moderately susceptible to common root
rot. It was evaluated as Entry 821 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from 1990-1991, 1993-1994, 1996-2001,
and 2011 for spring planting in the intermountain region of northern California.

HAXBY
Haxby is a two-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by the Montana AES in 2002. Its experimental designation was
MT950186. It has medium early maturity (two days earlier than Baronesse), mid-tall plant height (3 inches taller than
Baronesse), and fair to poor straw strength. Yield is equal to Baronesse and test weight is higher. It is non-Baronesse
derived and has superior performance in lower moisture conditions. It was evaluated as Entry 1193 in the UC Regional
Cereal Testing program from 2006-2007 for spring planting in the intermountain region of northern California.

HAYBET
Haybet is a two-rowed spring hooded forage barley. It was released by the Montana AES and USDA-ARS in 1989. It
was selected from the cross Betzes*7/’Strip Tease’. Its experimental designation was MT 4061. It is similar in
agronomic, spike, and kernel characteristics to Betzes. It is medium-late maturing (3-days later than Horsford), tall and
susceptible to lodging. It is best adapted to dryland and irrigated areas in the Pacific Northwest and northern Great
Plains. Crop Science 30: 230 (1990)

HAZEN
Hazen is a six-rowed spring malting and feed barley. It was released by the North Dakota AES in 1984. It was selected
from the cross Glenn/4/Nordic//Dickson/Trophy/3/Azure. Its experimental designation was ND 5569. It is medium-early
maturing, mid-tall, with straw strong. Spikes are medium-long, medium-lax, and semi-erect. Seeds are plump with white
aleurone. Test weight is moderate to high. At the time of release it was more field resistant than Glenn to
Helminthosporium sativum, equal to Glenn in resistance to net blotch, resistant to stem rust, and susceptible to leaf rust,

 20
