UC 937
UC 937 is a six-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by the California AES in 1999. UC 937 was selected among
progeny from the hybrid Sma1/Sunbar 401/3/Gus/Kombyne//Sma1. Sma1 has the parentage Steptoe/2*Diamant /3/Minn
Dwarf 64.98-8/Briggs/4/Asse. The final hybridization was made at Woodland, CA in 1983 by Robert Matchett.
Subsequent generations were handled in a pedigree selection program. An F3-derived seed sample in the F6 generation
(86Woodland 41233) was received by the University of California, Davis from Robert Matchett in 1987. A head row
was selected for agronomic appearance in 1992 by Lynn Gallagher and designated UCD 92-10,615 for preliminary yield
trials. In 1993 it was designated UC 937 and placed in UC regional yield trials for statewide evaluation. UC 937 was
released primarily for resistance to stripe rust. It is intended for late fall to early winter (November-December) sowing in
the Central Valley of California. UC 937 is a medium tall semi-dwarf (moderately short-statured as a result of the sdw
gene, but averages two inches taller than UC 828) with fair straw strength. It is medium-late maturing (heading time is 2
to 5 days later than UC 828 with mid-November to mid-December emergence under short daylength in California).
Spikes are fully awned, semi-erect, mid-dense and waxy. Glumes are more than 1⁄2 of the length of the lemma and
completely covered with short hairs. Glume awns are semi-smooth and greater than equal in length to glumes. Lemma
awns are long and semi-smooth. The kernels are beige (the aleurone non-blue), covered, short to mid-long and semi-
wrinkled. At the time of release UC 937 was resistant to stripe rust and scald, and moderately resistant to BYD, leaf rust,
powdery mildew, and net blotch. It subsequently became susceptible to leaf rust and moderately susceptible to powdery
mildew. It was evaluated as Entry 937 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from 1995-2008 for late fall planting
in the Central Valley and the south-central coastal regions of California and for spring planting in the intermountain
region of northern California. Crop Science 42:1374 (2002)

UC SIGNAL
UC Signal a six-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by the California AES in 1973. It originated as a single plant
selection from the F12 generation of a population synthesized from male sterile selection from CC XIV and CC XV as
female parents and CC II, CC V and CC XII as pollen sources. Its experimental designations were IV 363 and UC Holt.
It yielded 13-27% more than other commercially grown cultivars in the Imperial Valley prior to its release. It is adapted
to the lower desert areas of California, particularly the Imperial Valley. It is semi-smooth awned and early maturing. It
has medium short, weak straw and medium dense, erect spikes. Kernels are large with medium blue aleurone and short-
haired rachilla. At the time of release it was moderately susceptible to scald and susceptible to BYD and powdery
mildew. It was evaluated as Entry 55 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program for late fall planting in the southern
desert valleys of California. Crop Science 15:603 (1975)

WALKER
Walker is a six-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by the Utah AES in 1991. It was selected from the cross
Steptoe/M27. Its experimental designation was UT 1731. It is recommended only for growing under irrigation. It has
early maturity (equal to Steptoe in heading date), is mid-tall (about 4 cm taller than Steptoe), and has good lodging
resistance. Spikes are erect, tapering, with little or no overlap of lateral kernels, and profuse hairs on the rachis edges.
Glumes are long, covered with short hairs, and have medium-to-long, rough awns. Lemma awns are long and rough with
hair present and numerous teeth. The seed is covered, long, semi-wrinkled, with short rachilla hairs, and a slight crease at
the base. Aleurone color is white. The base of the spike is marked with a V-shaped collar. Grain yield is equal to Steptoe,
and test weight and protein exceed Steptoe. At the time of evaluation it was resistant to loose smut and covered smut,
moderately resistant to powdery mildew, and susceptible to stripe rust. It was evaluated as Entry 904 in the UC Regional
Cereal Testing program from 1993-1996 for spring planting in the intermountain region of northern California. Crop

Science 33:1413 (1993)

WESTBRED 501
Westbred 501 is a six-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by Western Plant Breeders in 1982. It was selected from
a male-sterile facilitated recurrent population (CCXXXII-76*Arivat F2 Bulk). Its experimental designation was WPB78-
20. It has medium early maturity, short stature (plant height averages 29-33 inches), and good straw strength. Early
growth is semi-prostrate. Spikes are slightly waxy, erect, strap-shaped with no kernels overlapping. Rachis edges have
few hairs. Awns are long and semi-smooth. Glumes are one-half the length of the lemma, with no glume hairs. Glume
awns are semi-smooth and more than equal to the length of the glumes. Hulls are adhering and semi-wrinkled. Aleurone
is colorless. Rachilla hairs are long. Veins are slightly prominent and there are no barbs on lateral veins. The crease is
closed in the lower one-third and shallow, flaring at the awn end. Kernels are very plump, about one-half as wide as they
are long, and lateral kernels are only slightly twisted and nearly the same shape as the central kernels. At the time of

 35
