SUNSTAR DOUBLE
Sunstar Double is a six-rowed facultative (winter/spring) feed barley. It was released by Sunderman Breeding Co. in
1995. It was selected from the cross Eight Twelve/Steptoe. Its experimental designation was SDM 208B. It has
intermediate height and good straw strength. At the time of evaluation it was moderately resistant to BYD and
susceptible to stripe rust. It was evaluated as Entry 950 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from 1995-1998 for
fall planting and spring planting in the intermountain region of northern California.

SUNSTAR PRIDE
Sunstar Pride is a six-rowed winter feed barley. It was released by Sunderman Breeding Co. in 1997. It was selected
from the cross Eight Twelve/Steptoe. Its experimental designation was SDM 204 B-1. It has intermediate height and
good straw strength. At the time of evaluation it was moderately resistant to BYD and susceptible to stripe rust. It was
evaluated as Entry 952 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from 1996-1998 for fall planting in the intermountain
region of northern California.

WESTBRED SPRINTER
Westbred Sprinter is a six-rowed facultative (winter/spring) feed barley. It was released by Western Plant Breeders in
1986. It was selected from a winter barley composite population developed by Neil Jensen at Cornell University. It can
be planted in the winter or spring planting seasons. It has late season maturity (7 days later than Westbred 501 and 3-5
days later than Schuyler), semi-dwarf height with stiff straw, and excellent lodging resistance. It is awned and has white
aleurone. It is moderately resistant to scald, net blotch, stripe rust, powdery mildew, and bacterial leaf blight, and
susceptible to leaf rust, stem rust and BYD. It was evaluated as Entry 748 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program
from 1986-1988, in 1991, and from 1993-2006 for fall planting and spring planting in the intermountain region of
northern California.

CULTIVAR ARCHIVES (Cultivars previously evaluated by UC Small Grains Program)
SPRING BARLEY

ADVANCE
Advance is a six-row spring malting and feed barley. It was released by the Washington Agriculture Research Center and
the Idaho and Oregon AESs in 1979. It is a reselection made in 1973 at Pullman, Washington from WA6591-69 which
was selected from the cross Foma/Triple Bearded Mariout//White Winter (WA6194- 63)/3/Blazer. Its experimental
designation was WA 6591-69. Advance was accepted for malting and brewing by the MBIA in 1982. Advance has
medium short (about 2 inches shorter than Steptoe) stiff straw and early maturity (about 5 days earlier than Steptoe). The
spike is erect, mid-dense, and mid-long with little or no overlapping of lateral rows. Awns are rough and long, the rachis
edge is hairy, and the glumes are medium length and covered with hairs. The glume awn is twice the length of the glume.
The rachilla hairs are short. Kernels are medium-sized with a smooth to slightly wrinkled hull, and white or colorless
aleurone. At the time of evaluation Advance was moderately susceptible to powdery mildew and BYD. It was evaluated
as Entry 583 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from 1981-1993 for spring planting in the intermountain region
of northern California. Crop Science 23:1218 (1983)

ALEXIS
Alexis is a two-row spring malting and feed barley. It was released by Western Plant Breeders. It was selected from the
cross BI1622a/Triumph. It is midseason in maturity and is mid-tall with fair straw strength. At the time of evaluation it
was resistant to stripe rust. It was evaluated as Entry 966 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program in 1997 for spring
planting in the intermountain region of northern California.

ANDRE
Andre is a two-row spring malting and feed barley. It was released by the Washington State University in 1983. It was
selected from the cross Klages/Zephyr. It is adapted to higher rainfall areas of eastern Washington, eastern Oregon and
northern Idaho. It has midseason maturity (3-4 days earlier than Klages). It is mid-tall with moderately stiff straw. Spikes
are lax, mid-long, and nodding. Awns are long and rough. Glumes have medium hairs. The glume awn is slightly longer
than the glume. Rachilla hairs are short. Seeds are plump with white aleurone. The hull is tightly adhering and finely

 9
