early to midseason maturity. Spikes are medium lax, mid-long, inclined to nodding. It has semi-smooth awns. Glumes
have a band of long hairs and the glume awn is three times the length of the glume. Hulls are adhering and slightly to
semi-wrinkled. It has long rachilla hairs and colorless aleurone. Lateral veins are moderately prominent and the central
vein is broad and raised over the germ but often indistinct at the center of the kernel. There are several barbs on lateral
veins. The crease is V-shaped from the base and relatively narrow. Kernels are plump, wide at the center, tapering
uniformly to both ends. Lateral kernels are moderately twisted. At the time of release it was resistant to stem rust,
tolerant to BYD, moderately susceptible to spot blotch, net blotch and loose smut, and susceptible to Septoria leaf blotch
and powdery mildew. It was evaluated as Entry 234 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program for spring planting in
the intermountain region of northern California. Crop Science 4:239 (1964)

LEGACY
Legacy is a six-rowed spring malting barley. It was released by Busch Agricultural Resources in 2000. It was selected
from the cross 6B86-3517/Excel, a complex cross involving the parental cultivars Bumper, Karl, Manker, and Excel. Its
experimental designation was 6B93-2978. Plants are tall with fair to poor lodging resistance and early maturity. It has
semi-smooth awns, long rachilla hairs, and colorless aleurone. It is resistant to spot blotch and has slightly better net
blotch resistance than Robust. At the time of evaluation it was susceptible to scald, BYD, and stripe rust. It was
evaluated as Entry 1084 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from 2001-2011 for spring planting in the
intermountain region of northern California.

LEWIS
Lewis is a two-rowed spring feed and malting barley. It was released by the USDA-ARS and the Montana AES in 1985.
It was selected from the cross Hector/Klages. Its experimental designation was MT 547123. It is recommended as a feed
barley under irrigation in Montana. It has higher yields than Klages in both dryland and irrigated trials and similar
malting quality. It has midseason maturity and heads 3 days earlier than Klages. It has 11% more plump kernels, similar
height and better lodging resistance than Klages. Its spikes are mid-lax, mid-long and nodding with rough awns. Glume
awns are equal in length to the glume, and glumes are covered with long hairs. Rachis edges have long hairs. It has finely
wrinkled hulls without barbs on the lateral veins, a long-haired rachilla and white aleurone. The crease is narrow at the
base, tending to flare at the awn end. It has more tolerance to spot and net blotch and common root rot than Klages. It
was evaluated as Entry 686 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from 1984-1987 for spring planting in the
intermountain region of northern California. Crop Science 25:570-571 (1985)

LINDY
Lindy is a six-rowed spring feed barley. It was developed by CENEX, Oregon. It is late maturing and has tall plant
height and poor straw strength. At the time of evaluation it was resistant to scald and leaf rust and susceptible to BYD. It
was evaluated as Entry 700 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from 1985-1987 for spring planting in the
intermountain area of northern California and for late fall planting in the Central Valley and the south-central coastal
regions of California.

LUD
Lud is a two-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by North American Plant Breeders in 1975. It was selected from
the cross Vada/Zephyr//RMGH 59114. It has midseason maturity (similar to Klages), medium short plant height (2-4
inches shorter than Klages) and strong straw. It has long, rough awns. Glumes have short hairs confined to the midline.
Hulls are adhering and slightly wrinkled. The aleurone is colorless. Rachilla hairs are short. Veins are prominent and
there are no barbs on lateral veins. The crease is closed in the lower one-third of the kernel, flaring at the awn end. At the
time of release it was resistant to powdery mildew, loose smut, and covered smut and susceptible to scald, stem rust, net
blotch and spot blotch. It was evaluated as Entry 582 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from 1980-1985 for
spring planting in the intermountain region of northern California.

MADERA
Madera a six-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by Western Plant Breeders in 1992. It was selected from a male-
sterile facilitated recurrent selection population (UZU-POP). Its experimental designation was DA 587- 71. It is late
maturing and has medium plant height and fair to poor straw strength. At the time of evaluation it was moderately
resistant to scald, net blotch, BYD, stripe rust and powdery mildew, and moderately susceptible to leaf rust. It was
evaluated as Entry 814 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from 1990-1995 for late fall planting in the Central
Valley and the south-central coastal regions of California.

 24
