Briggs and Arivat. It is adapted to irrigated culture in California and Arizona. It has midseason maturity, similar to
Briggs. It has semi-prostrate juvenile growth and short, strong straw. Spike are lax, mid-long and erect to inclined at
maturity. The rachis edges are long haired. Awns are semi-smooth. Glumes possess long hairs restricted to the middle
region. The glume awn is equal in length to the glume. Kernels are mid-long with white hulls with long haired rachillas.
Aleurone is 70% colorless and 30% light blue. It has similar resistance to BYD as CM 67. At the time of release it was
moderately susceptible to scald. It was evaluated as Entry 249 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from 1980-
1981 for late fall planting in the Central Valley and the south-central coastal regions of California. Crop Science 18:692
(1978)

KRIS
Kris is a two-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by USDA-ARS and the Idaho AES in 1981. It was selected from
the cross 60Ab1810/61Ab4965. Its experimental designation was 72Ab3633. The parents are related to Klages and
Kimberly. It is intended primarily as a replacement for Klages in production areas where the earlier maturity of Kris will
represent a significant production advantage over Klages. It is similar to Klages in malting quality and most agronomic
characteristics with the principal advantages being earlier maturity and greater kernel plumpness. It has midseason
maturity (three days earlier in heading than Klages) and is mid-tall with moderately stiff straw. Spikes are lax, mid-long
to long, nodding, with rachis edges hairy. Awns are rough. The glume is covered with long hairs and the glume awn is
equal in length to the glume. Hulls are adhering and finely wrinkled. The aleurone is colorless. Veins are moderately
prominent and there are no barbs on lateral veins. The crease is narrow and shallow at the base and flared at the awn end.
It was evaluated as Entry 627 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from 1982-1984 for spring planting in the
intermountain region of northern California.

KURTFORD
Kurtford is a six-rowed spring forage (hooded) barley. It was released by Western Plant Breeders. It is medium maturing
and mid-short with good straw strength. At the time of release it was resistant to scald, net blotch, and BYD, moderately
resistant to powdery mildew, and susceptible to stripe rust. It was adapted for fall planting in the Central Valley and the
south-central coastal regions of California.

LACEY
Lacey is a six-rowed spring malting barley. It was released by the Minnesota AES in 2000. It was selected from the cross
M44/Excel//M46/M44/3/M44/Excel//Stander. Its experimental designation was M98. It is adapted to the barley-growing
area of the upper Midwest of the United States and possibly in neighboring regions of Canada. It was intended to replace
the cultivars Robust and Stander. Malting quality traits appear to be similar to Robust, the industry six-rowed quality
standard. Lacey is tall (about 6 cm shorter than Robust), with fair straw strength, and has early maturity (similar to
Robust in heading date and maturity). It is similar to Robust and Stander, with smooth awns, covered kernels, short
rachilla hairs, and white aleurone. The spike is medium-lax, medium-long, and semi-erect. It possesses the ND B112
gene for resistance to spot blotch and carries the Rpg1 (T) gene for resistance to stem rust. It is susceptible to smut and
Fusarium head blight. At the time of evaluation it was moderately resistant to stripe rust. It was evaluated as Entry 1075
in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from 2001-2004 and in 2011 for spring planting in the intermountain region
of northern California. Crop Science 41:1991 (2001)

LAMONT
Lamont is a two-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by USDA-ARS and the Idaho and Oregon AESs in 1985. It
was selected from the cross Zephyr/61Ab4965. The parent 61Ab4965 is a sib of Kimberly. Its experimental designation
was 74Ab10167. It has midseason maturity. Spikes are lax, mid-long to long, and rough awned. Aleurone is white.
Rachilla hairs are long. Malting and brewing qualities are unacceptable by AMBA. It is similar to Klages in test weight,
height (mid-tall) and lodging resistance (fair) in Idaho trials. It heads 1 day earlier and has plumper kernels than Klages.
At the time of release it had good field resistance to kernel blight (caused by Pseudomonas syringae pv. syringae. It was
evaluated as Entry 656 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from 1983-1984 for spring planting in the
intermountain region of northern California. Crop Science 28:373 (1988)

LARKER
Larker is a six-rowed spring malting barley. It was released by the North Dakota AES in 1961. It was selected from the
cross Traill/colorless aleurone selection of U.M. 570, CIho 10002. Its experimental designation was ND B117. It is
adapted to the North Central U.S. and has yield similar to Traill. Plants are mid-tall with moderately strong straw and

 23
