evaluation it was resistant to scald, net blotch, and powdery mildew, moderately susceptible to BYD, and susceptible to
loose smut and leaf rust. It was evaluated as Entry 577 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from 1981-1984 for
late fall planting in the Central Valley and the south-central coastal regions of California.

WESTBRED BARCOTT
Westbred Barcott is a six-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by Western Plant Breeders. It originated as an F2
selection from the male-sterile facilitated recurrent selection population CCXXII-78. It was developed to be used in
rotation with cotton in the desert southwest. It is very early maturing (10 days earlier than Westbred 501). It is short with
excellent straw strength. It has short awns. At the time of evaluation it was moderately susceptible to leaf rust, net blotch,
powdery mildew, and bacterial leaf blight, and susceptible to stem rust, scald, and BYD. It was evaluated as Entry 727 in
the UC Regional Cereal Testing program in 1986 for late fall planting in the Central Valley and south-central coastal
regions of California.

WESTBRED GUSTOE
Westbred Gustoe is a six-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by Western Plant Breeders in 1982. It is a selection
from the resultant F2 of the intercrossed short F2 plants in the bulk F2 of the cross CCXXXII-76/Arivat. It is derived
from F8 plant selections from an F7 bulk tested as BFP-79-22. Its experimental designation was WPB 79-22. Westbred
Gustoe is a semi-dwarf with fair straw strength. It is late in maturity and has a semi-prostrate growth habit in the
Southwest when planted in November to February. It heads about 2 days later than Steptoe when planted in the spring at
Tulelake. The spike is medium in length, parallel, mid-dense, and erect at maturity. The basal rachis internode is straight
and the rachis edges are covered with hairs. The lemma awn is long and rough. The glume awn is longer than the glume
and is rough. The glume is one-half the length of the lemma. The rachilla hairs are long. Kernels are mid-long with semi-
wrinkled hulls and blue aleurone. The collars are closed. The leaves and spikes have a slight waxy coating. At the time of
evaluation it was moderately resistant to BYD, moderately susceptible to scald and net blotch, and susceptible to leaf
rust, stripe rust and powdery mildew. It was evaluated as Entry 618 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from
1982-2001 for spring planting in the intermountain area of northern California and for late fall planting in the Central
Valley and the south-central coastal regions of California.

WESTBRED SPRINTER
Westbred Sprinter is a six-rowed facultative feed barley. It was released by Western Plant Breeders in 1986. It was
selected from a winter barley composite population developed by Neil Jensen at Cornell University. It can be planted in
the winter or spring planting seasons. It has late season maturity (7 days later than Westbred 501 and 3-5 days later than
Schuyler), semi-dwarf height (medium short) with stiff straw, and excellent lodging resistance. It is awned and has white
aleurone. At the time of evaluation it was moderately resistant to scald, net blotch, stripe rust, powdery mildew, and
bacterial leaf blight, and susceptible to leaf rust, stem rust and BYD. It was evaluated as Entry 748 in the UC Regional
Cereal Testing program from 1986-1988, in 1991, and from 1993-2006 for fall planting and spring planting in the
intermountain region of northern California.

WESTFORD
Westford is a six-rowed spring forage (hooded) barley. It was released by Western Plant Breeders. Its experimental
designation was BFC 79-18. It was developed for maximum forage production for growers needing additional forage and
feed without committing to an alfalfa rotation. It has produced 2950 lbs/acre more forage than Horsford. It is late
maturing and tall with good straw strength. At the time of evaluation it was resistant to scald, net blotch, and powdery
mildew, and susceptible to BYD and stripe rust. It was evaluated as Entry 801 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing
program as a forage barley from 1989-1990 for late fall planting in the Central Valley and the south-central coastal
regions of California and in 2007 for spring planting in the intermountain region of northern California.

WINTER TENNESSEE
Winter Tennessee is a six-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by the California AES in 1916. It originated as a
selection from Coast. It does not in any way resemble the true Tennessee Winter type. It produces better on wet and
poorly drained soils than other varieties available at the time of release. It has erect early season growth, and mid-season
to late maturity. It is mid-tall with moderately weak straw. Basal rachis internodes are straight. Spikes are lax, short to
mid-long, parallel, slightly waxy and slightly nodding. Lemma awns are long and rough. Glume awns are rough and
equal in length to glumes. Glumes are half the length of lemmas and covered with short hairs. The rachilla is short-
haired. Hulls are slightly wrinkled to semi-wrinkled. Aleurone is blue. Veins on kernels are moderately prominent and

 36
