Piston is a two-rowed spring feed barley. It was developed by CENEX, Oregon. It is medium maturing (heads about 7
days later than Steptoe) and has medium plant height (2 inches shorter than Steptoe) and good straw strength. At the time
of evaluation it was moderately resistant to leaf rust and susceptible to scald and BYD. It was evaluated as Entry 698 in
the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from 1985-1987 for spring planting in the intermountain area of northern
California and for late fall planting in the Central Valley and the south-central coastal regions of California.

POCO
Poco is a six-rowed spring feed barley. It was developed by D.G. Lorance for Anderson Clayton Co., and released in
1981. Poco was selected from an early maturing CIMMYT line from the cross HJA C4715*Olli- M64-69. Its
experimental designations were CMB73-383-2Y-2B-Y-0B and PC238. Poco has very early maturity, very short stature,
and good straw strength. The spike is parallel, mid-dense, and inclined at maturity. The basal rachis internode is curved
and the rachis edges are covered with hairs. The lemma awn is long and rough. The glume awn is longer than the glume
and rough. The glume is one-half the length of the lemma. Rachilla hairs are short. Kernels are short to mid-long with
semi-wrinkled hulls and white aleurone. At the time of evaluation it was moderately resistant to BYD, moderately
susceptible to net blotch, powdery mildew, and leaf rust, and susceptible to scald. It was evaluated as Entry 579 in the
UC Regional Cereal Testing program from 1981-1983 for fall planting in the Central Valley and south-central coastal
regions of California and for spring planting in the intermountain area of northern California.

PRATO
Prato is a six-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by the California AES in 1978. It is an F5 selection made in 1975
from the modified backcross CM 67/3*Briggs/4/Briggs*4/3/California Mariout*4/CIho 1179//2*California
Mariout*6/Club Mariout. Its experimental designation was UC76137. Prato has medium short stature, fair straw
strength, and medium early maturity (about 2 days later than Briggs). The spike is parallel, medium dense, medium long,
and inclined at maturity. The basal rachis internode is straight. The rachis edges have few hairs. Rachilla hairs are long.
The lemma awn is long and semi-smooth. The glume awn is more than equal in length to the glume and is rough. The
glume is one-half the length of the lemma. Kernels are mid-long to long, with semi-wrinkled hulls and white aleurone.
At the time of evaluation Prato was resistant to BYD (Yd2 gene), moderately resistant to scald, leaf rust, and powdery
mildew, and susceptible to net blotch. It was evaluated as Entry 316 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from
1980-1994 for late fall planting in the Central Valley and the south-central coastal regions of California. Crop Science
19:741 (1979)

PREMIER
Premier is a two-rowed spring malting barley. It was developed by Busch Agricultural Resources, Inc and released in
1985. It was selected from the cross Klages/Summit. Its experimental designation was 2B78-471. Premier has relatively
short, stiff straw with fair lodging resistance and medium late maturity. Spikes are lax, mid-long to long, nodding, with
rough awns. Rachis edges are covered with hair. The glume awn is equal in length to the glume. Kernels have long
rachilla hairs, slightly wrinkled hulls, and white aleurone. Veins are moderately prominent and there are no barbs on the
lateral veins. The crease is V-shaped and closed in the lower quarter of the kernel. It was evaluated as Entry 633 in the
UC Regional Cereal Testing program from 1982-1985 for spring planting in the intermountain region of northern
California.

RADIANT
Radiant is a two-rowed spring feed and malting barley. It was released by the Washington State University Agricultural
Research Center and the Idaho and Oregon AESs and USDA-ARS in 2003. It was selected from the cross (Induced
mutant in Harrington) ant29-667/Baronesse. Its experimental designation was 98-NZ 223. It is a proanthocyanidin-free
two-rowed spring feed and potentially malting barley. The lack of proanthocyanidins is a brewing quality trait, which
eliminates permanent and chill haze formation in beer. A lack of proanthocyanidins may also improve barley as livestock
feed (digestibility) and human food (white color retention). It is well adapted to Pacific Northwest growing conditions,
essentially equal to the leading Washington cultivar, Baronesse, in yield based on state and regional tests conducted
2000-2002. It is similar to Baronesse in pest resistances and other agronomic traits, except that it is late maturing (heads
2-5 days later than Baronesse). It is medium height with poor straw strength. Micro-malting data indicate a quality
profile similar to Harrington. It has particularly high malt extract and low beta-glucan content. At the time of release it
was moderately resistant to stripe rust, powdery mildew, net blotch, and scald. It was evaluated as Entry 1160 in the UC
Regional Cereal Testing program in 2004 for spring planting in the intermountain region of northern California. Crop
Science 44:1859-1860 (2004)

 28
