maturity (similar to Klages, Crystal, and Harrington). It has tall plant height (similar to Klages, Crystal, and Harrington)
and poor straw strength (similar to Crystal). It has medium-lax spikes and rough awns. Kernels are covered and have
white aleurone. Rachilla hairs are long, barbs on lateral veins are absent, lemmas are typically wrinkled, glumes are
covered with long hairs or in a band, and rachis edges have numerous hairs. At the time of release it was susceptible to
stripe rust and to Russian wheat aphid. It was evaluated as Entry 1076 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program from
2001-2004 for spring planting in the intermountain region of northern California. Crop Science 40:851(2000)

GLENN
Glenn is a six-rowed spring malting barley. It was released by the North Dakota Agricultural Experiment Station and
USDA-ARS in 1978. It was selected from the cross BR5755-3/Trophy//ND B138. Its experimental designation was ND
718. It is medium-early, mid-tall and has moderately strong straw. Spikes are rough- awned, medium-lax, medium-long
and semi-erect. Kernels are medium-sized and covered with colorless aleurone and long rachilla hairs. It yields 8%
higher than Larker and is superior to Larker in total protein content, wort protein, extract and enzyme activity. At the
time of release it was resistant to loose smut, covered smut and stem rust, and was more resistant than Larker to Septoria
passerini, Helminthosporium teres and H. sativum. It was evaluated as Entry 575 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing
program from 1980-1984 for spring planting in the intermountain region of northern California. Crop Science
19:409(1979)

GOLDENEYE
Goldeneye is a six-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by the Utah AES in 2005. It was selected from the cross
ID633019/Woodvale//Steptoe//OR3. Its experimental designation was UT95B1216-4087. It is erect-growing and early
heading. Plant height is similar to Steptoe (mid-tall). It has a lax spike with limited overlapping of upper lateral spikelets.
The basal rachis internode has a short straight to curved shape, and the collar is closed to a V-shaped type. The length of
the rachis internodes is relatively constant from top to bottom of the spike, and the rachis edges have few hairs. The awns
are long and semi-smooth. The glumes are hairy on dorsal surfaces and edges. No hairs are visible on the ventral surface
of the glumes. Length of glume awns is more than equal to length of glumes. The seed is covered. Lemma teeth are
missing or few and confined to the nerves. The rachilla is short haired. The shape of lemma base is a transverse crease
type. Hulls are slightly to semi-wrinkled and aleurone color is white. At the time of release it was resistant to loose smut
and covered smut and susceptible to stripe rust. It was evaluated as Entry 1107 in 2002 and as Entry 1173 from 2005-
2006 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program for spring planting in the intermountain region of northern California.
Crop Science 45:2658 (2005)

GRANDE
Grande is a six-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by the California AES and USDA-ARS in 1963. It was a F21
selection from Composite Cross II. Its experimental designation was CAS 1358. Its best adaptation is in areas where late
rains or high soil moisture holding capacity favor the use of a medium late cultivar. It has medium late maturity. Its
growth habit is prostrate during winter. Plant height (tall), shatter and straw strength (poor) characteristics are similar to
Atlas 57. It is intermediate between Arivat and Winter Tennessee for plant height. Spikes tend to droop at maturity.
Awns are long and rough. The rachilla is long with short hairs. Kernels are large and deep blue. At the time of release it
was resistant or tolerant to powdery mildew, net blotch, and scald, and moderately susceptible to BYD. It was evaluated
as Entry 8 in the UC Regional Cereal Testing program for late fall planting in the Central Valley and the south-central
coastal regions of California. Crop Science 5:198 (1965)

GUS
Gus is a six-rowed spring feed barley. It was released by Western Plant Breeders in 1977. It was selected as a F2 plant
from a male-sterile facilitated recurrent population which contained southwestern United States-adapted germplasm
crossed to short-strawed genotypes. This population was later released by Dr. R.T. Ramage (USDA/ARS) as Composite
Cross XXXII-76. Its experimental designation was WPB6-3. Gus is a semi-dwarf with moderately stiff to stiff straw and
midseason maturity. It has wide leaves and a semi-prostrate early growth habit. The spike is erect, not dense, with
kernels overlapping at the tip. Very little wax is present on the head, which makes it appear glossy. The rachis edges
have a few hairs. The rachilla has few long hairs. Kernels are mid-long to long with semi-wrinkled hulls that tend to peel
off towards the tips, and blue aleurone. Veins are slightly prominent and there are no barbs on lateral veins. The crease is
open and shallow in the lower half, flaring at the beard end. At the time of release Gus was moderately resistant to scald
and net blotch, but susceptible to loose smut, leaf rust, BYD, and powdery mildew. It was evaluated as Entry 355 in the
UC Regional Cereal Testing program from 1980-1987 for spring planting in the intermountain area of northern

 19
